# SNHU_FSD1_23EW5
coursework from my Full Stack Development 1 course at SNHU\n
Express is a framework for web application creation that has a lot of pre-created functionality and tools that allow for a rapid approach to web development.  Single page applications (SPA) allow for dynamic content use on the current page.  It heavily relies on javascript to make this happen, which is a scripting (or programming) language designed for implementing complex functionality on web pages.  We chose to use a NoSQL database as they are more flexible in their structure requirements and high performing.  MongoDB is relatively easy to set up with robust tools.
We made use of JSON but it is more of a format for holding data that is used by scripting of programming languages such as Javascipt.  JSON provides a great format for storing temporary data.  
Utilizing reusable UI components provides a number of benefits.  From a coding and code maintenance perspective it allows us to reuse already written code and potentially propagate design changes to all areas using the reusable code at once.  From a user perspective standardizing the UI across the various pages and functionalities ties the web app together and helps users recognize functionality.
We performed validation testing of the API end points used by our various calls (which included GET, POST, and PUT calls) utilizing Postman to make calls to the various end points and pass in the required variables as necessary to retrieve responses.
The course moved fast for Full Stack Development with only 8 weeks but that was expected.  While I have often been involved with very small parts of a larger project, it was fun to see the process through and be hands on for development of a full application.  I feel I could still use more experience passing and retrieving information from an associated database and could use more experience with web application development, but it felt good to revisit working on a web app and to get more experience passing information to and from a database.  I also believe this was my first experience with express and it provided some helpful functionality for fast web development.
